---
tags: [money]
---

Over the past week, I've seen numerous posts to this effect:

> I think the market will continue to drop. Should I sell now and buy back later?

It's a reasonable question, given recent events. After all, it's hard to sit by
and watch 30% of your portfolio evaporate.

But there's something wrong with the original assumption. Namely, the market
doesn't obey the laws of classical physics. There is no such thing as market
momentum. It moves unpredictably, except to those with insider information.
The fact that the market has been down lately tells you *exactly zero
information* about the future, regardless of volatility. It's impossible to
make a rational decision to sell based solely on recent market trends.

Here's the key insight: the forecast is already included in today's price -
it's "priced in." If experts thought the market was going to go down even
further, *it would already be down*. A rational investor will refuse to buy
higher, and sell lower, than their predicted future price.  The current market
reflects everyone's best guess at the future price, including institutional
investors with more resources than the average person. And in case it's
non-obvious, experts *domniate* the market.  They largely control the price of
any given stock.

Putting it all together: the price of a stock goes up when experts are happily
surprised, and down when they're disappointed. Unless you can predict when
institutional investors will be surprised, don't try to time the market.
Otherwise it's just gambling. Instead, invest for the long term. Pick a
strategy and stick with it, even at times like these.

One final note: I've found it helpful to remember that volatility, not overall
price, governs opportunity cost. It's easy to feel bad about missing out on a
stock that triples in value overnight. Realizing that you can also make money
by correctly guessing a series of rapid price changes, and realizing that
*it's the same thing*, takes some of the edge off.
